
To install the greylist daemon:

Dependencies:

	All programs require the CGILIB library I wrote.  The latest version
	is available at:

		http://....

	The "gld-mcp" program requires the GNU readline package.  The latest
	version of that is available at:

		http://tiswww.case.edu/php/chet/readline/rltop.html

	The "smc" (sendmail client) requires the milter and pthreads
	library.  You are on your own for installing milter and pthreads.
	Sorry.

Extraction:

	If you're reading this, you've already extracted the files. 
	Congratulations!

Compilation:

	Edit both the top level Makefile and conf.h to reflect your system's
	layout and preferences.  Once you are satisified with the parameter
	settings, you can then compile the program.

	To compile and install the server portion:

		make server
		make server-install

	This will make the server and the Master Control Program, and
	install them (default: /usr/local/bin).  It will also install some
	help files used by the MCP program (default: /usr/local/share/gld).


	If you are using Postfix:

		make postfix
		make postfix-install

	If you are using Sendmail:

		make sendmail
		make sendmail-install

	If you are using Qmail:

		I feel sorry for you.

Installation and starting the various programs:

	Server:

		There's a sample startup script for the server in the
		scripts directory.  It was written for a SysV type system
		(okay, RedHat Linux and derivatives) but it will give you an
		indication of how the server is started.  Basically, it's
		just "./gld" but you can use the command line options to
		override the built-in defaults ("gld --help" for more
		inforamtion).

		To start the gld process:

			# /usr/local/bin/gld

		To stop the gld process:

			# kill `cat /var/run/gld.pid`

		It will dump its current state and then stop.

		The greylist daemon does not need to be root to run,
		although it does need write access to its state files and
		pid file.

		The gld-mcp program is used to manage the server process
		(although you can't use it to stop gld).
	
		To run the gld-map program:

			# /usr/local/bin/gld-mcp

		(at the gld-mcp prompt, type 'help' for more information)

	Postfix:

		Edit '/etc/postfix/master.cf' to include the following line:

		---[ line to add ]----------------

		policy unix - n n - - spawn user=nobody argv=/usr/local/bin/pfc

		---[ end of line ]------------------

		and restart Postfix.   

	Sendmail:

		You need to make sure the 'smc' program is running before
		sendmail starts.  To start smc:

			# /usr/local/bin/smc

		And to stop smc:

			# kill `cat /var/run/smc.pid`

		To configure sendmail to use smc, add the following to
		'/etc/mail/sendmail.mc':

		---[ line to add ]---------------------------------

		define (`_FFR_MILTER', `1')dnl.
		INPUT_MAIL_FILTER(`filter', `S=unix:/var/state/gld/milter')

		---[ end of line ]---------------------------------

		Then run make in '/etc/mail'.  That will regenerate
		'/etc/mail/sendmail.cf'.  Then restart sendmail.

Example Setups:

	Running the clients and server on the same system:  just run as-is. 
	This is the default setting of the greylist daemon.

	Running the client on one host, the greylist daemon on another host:
	run the client(s) as:

		# ./pfc --server gldserver
		# ./smc --server gldserver
		# ./gld-mcp --server gldserver

	On the machine running gld, start the process as:

		# ./gld --host 0.0.0.0

	if you want it to accept connections on all available interfaces. If
	you only want to accept requests on a specific interface, specify
	the IP address of that interface:

		# ./gld --host gldserver

	The server can only accept requests from all interfaces (using
	"0.0.0.0" or the one specified interface.

	You can have multiple clients all communicating to a common server.

Restricting access:

	The best way is to run both the server and clients on the same box.
	All communications happen over the loopback address.  If that's not
	desirable, then you can run the server on a private IP address.  If
	you need to run the server process on a public port, then you'll
	need to use other methods to restrict access (such as a firewall). 
	The greylist daemon does not have facilities for restricting access
	at this time.

Managing the server:

Each request to the greylist daemon consists of a tuple

	[
	  IP-address-of-sender
	  sender-email-address
	  recipient-email-address
	]

The greylist daemon filters each tuple through five lists before it adds the
tuple to the greylist.  The lists are, in order:

		iplist
		from
		from-domain
		to
		to-domain

('from' is easier to type than 'sender' and 'to' is easier to type than
'recipient'; 'to' and 'from' have nothing to do with the email headers 'To:'
and 'From:')

Tuples can be accepted or rejected at each stage.  If a tuple is not
accepted or rejected, it continues forward through the filters.  The default
rule for each filter is to 'GREYLIST' (which means the tuple continues
through the system).

	gld-mcp>show iplist
	         0 GRAYLIST 0.0.0.0         0.0.0.0        
	gld-mcp>show from
	         0 GRAYLIST DEFAULT
	gld-mcp>show from-domain
	         0 GRAYLIST DEFAULT
	gld-mcp>show to
	         0 GRAYLIST DEFAULT
	gld-mcp>show to-domain
	         0 GRAYLIST DEFAULT
	gld-mcp>

The initial 0 is the number of requests that matched that rule.  In this
case, since there have been no requests, these counts are zero.

Installing rules is quite simple.  For example:

	gld-mcp>iplist accept 10/8
	gld-mcp>iplist reject 10.10/16
	gld-mcp>iplist greylist 10.10.10/24
	gld-mcp>iplist accept 10.10.10.10
	gld-mcp>show iplist
	         0 GRAYLIST 0.0.0.0         0.0.0.0        
		 0 GRAYLIST 10.10.10.10	    255.255.255.255
	         0 GRAYLIST 10.10.10.0      255.255.255.0  
	         0 REJECT   10.10.0.0       255.255.0.0    
	         0 ACCEPT   10.0.0.0        255.0.0.0      
	gld-mcp>

This modifies the IPlist filter to accept all tuples coming from the
'10.0.0.0/8' network, reject them from the subnetwork of '10.10.0.0/16', but
within that block, greylist tuples from '10.10.10.0/24', and accept anything
from the host 10.10.10.10; Any IP address not matching one of those rules
will be greylisted.

Adding rules to the 'To', 'To-domain', 'From' and 'From-domain' filters is
just as easy:

	gld-mcp>from accept bob@example.net
	gld-mcp>from-domain reject example.net
	gld-mcp>to greylist info@example.com
	gld-mcp>to greylist postmaster@example.com
	gld-mcp>to-domain reject example.com
	gld-mcp>show from
	         0 ACCEPT   bob@example.net
	         0 GRAYLIST DEFAULT
	gld-mcp>show from-domain
	         0 REJECT   example.net
	         0 GRAYLIST DEFAULT
	gld-mcp>show to
	         0 GRAYLIST info@example.com
	         0 GRAYLIST postmaster@example.com
	         0 GRAYLIST DEFAULT
	gld-mcp>show to-domain
	         0 REJECT   example.com
	         0 GRAYLIST DEFAULT
	gld-mcp>

So here, mail from 'bob@example.net' will be accepted (by the rule in the
from-filter) but anything else from 'example.net' will be rejected (by the
rule in the from-domain-filter).  Mail addressed to 'info@example.com' and
'postmaster@example.com' will be greylisted, but anything else will be
rejected outright.

	NOTE: the default action of the to-list is to GREYLIST, we
	explicitely listed 'info@example.com' and 'postmaster@example.com'
	since an explicit (a non-default) match there will bypass the
	to-domain-filter; explicit matches in the from-list will bypass the
	from-domain-filter as well.

Removing items from these lists is easy:

	gld-mcp>to remove info@example.com
	gld-mcp>show to
	         0 GRAYLIST postmaster@example.com
	         0 GRAYLIST DEFAULT
	gld-mcp>iplist remove 10.10.10.10
	gld-mcp>show iplist
	         0 GRAYLIST 0.0.0.0         0.0.0.0        
	         0 GRAYLIST 10.10.10.0      255.255.255.0  
	         0 REJECT   10.10.0.0       255.255.0.0    
	         0 ACCEPT   10.0.0.0        255.0.0.0    
	gld-mcp>

To see the currently greylisted tuples:

	gld-mcp>show tuples
	...
	71.165.201.120 gladdenedf@ncweb.com apache@armigeron.com ----- 1194031754 1194031754
	71.186.172.232 jrafert471@hersheys.com mail@floridabroadband.net ----- 1194025414 1194025414
	71.186.172.232 jrafert471@hersheys.com billing@floridabroadband.net ----- 1194025410 1194025410
	71.186.172.232 jrafert471@hersheys.com mailer-daemon@floridabroadband.net ----- 1194025413 1194025413
	71.232.226.15 TonirenalMilligan@gasupreme.us ftp@armigeron.com ----- 1194040172 1194040172
	...
	gld-mcp>

In order, you have the IP address, sender address, recipient address,
various flags used internally, the timestamp (which on this system, is the
number of seconds since Jan. 1, 1970) when the tuple was created, and last
seen (in this case, the ones presented here have only been seen once).  To
see tuples that have been whitelisted:

	gld-mcp>show tuples whitelist
	...
	72.35.226.105 ret@perfear.com chuck@armigeron.com
	72.35.226.110 ret@taxedfear.com chuck@armigeron.com
	72.35.226.112 ret@venicecalling.com chuck@armigeron.com
	72.35.226.113 ret@wehavenofear.com chuck@armigeron.com
	72.52.73.3 info@email-marketing-group.com chuck@armigeron.com
	...

Tuples can be added, whitelisted and removed from the MCP program:

	gld-mcp>tuple greylist 10.100.1.1 alice@example.net info@example.com
	gld-mcp>tuple whitelist 10.101.2.2 bob@example.net postmaster@example.com
	gld-mcp>tuple remove 71.186.172.232 jrafert471@hersheys.com mailer-daemon@floridabroadband.net
	gld-mcp>tuple remove 72.35.226.113 ret@wehavenofear.com chuck@armigeron.com

And finally, to see some stats from the server:

	gld-mcp>show stats
	Start: Tue Oct 30 23:49:02 2007 End: Fri Nov  2 17:42:11 2007 Running time: 2d 17h 53m 9s
	Requests:                    12166
	Requests-Cu:                     6
	Requests-Cu-Max:               283
	Requests-Cu-Ave:                15
	
	IP-Entries:                    121
	IP-Graylisted:               11887
	IP-Accepted:                   279
	IP-Rejected:                     0
	
	From-Entries:                    1
	From-Graylisted:             11887
	From-Accepted:                   0
	From-Rejected:                   0
	
	From-Domain-Entries:             1
	From-Domain-Graylisted:      11851
	From-Domain-Accepted:            0
	From-Domain-Rejected:            0

	To-Entries:                      1
	To-Graylisted:               11887
	To-Accepted:                     0
	To-Rejected:                     0
	
	To-Domain-Entries:               3
	To-Domain-Graylisted:        10917
	To-Domain-Accepted:              0
	To-Domain-Rejected:            970
	
	Tuples:                       1624
	Graylisted:                  10700
	Graylisted-Expired:           9171
	Whitelisted:                   116
	Whitelisted-Expired:             7
	gld-mcp>

(this is from my private email server, and I manually removed seven entries
from the whitelist, and thus they show up as being expired)

This should be enough to get you up and running with the greylist daemon.
