
Managing the server:

Each request to the greylist daemon consists of a tuple

	[
	  IP-address-of-sender
	  sender-email-address
	  recipient-email-address
	]

The greylist daemon filters each tuple through five lists before it adds the
tuple to the greylist.  The lists are, in order:

		iplist
		from
		from-domain
		to
		to-domain

('from' is easier to type than 'sender' and 'to' is easier to type than
'recipient'; 'to' and 'from' have nothing to do with the email headers 'To:'
and 'From:')

Tuples can be accepted or rejected at each stage.  If a tuple is not
accepted or rejected, it continues forward through the filters.  The default
rule for each filter is to 'GREYLIST' (which means the tuple continues
through the system).

	gld-mcp>show iplist
	         0 GREYLIST 0.0.0.0         0.0.0.0        
	gld-mcp>show from
	         0 GREYLIST DEFAULT
	gld-mcp>show from-domain
	         0 GREYLIST DEFAULT
	gld-mcp>show to
	         0 GREYLIST DEFAULT
	gld-mcp>show to-domain
	         0 GREYLIST DEFAULT
	gld-mcp>

The initial 0 is the number of requests that matched that rule.  In this
case, since there have been no requests, these counts are zero.

Installing rules is quite simple.  For example:

	gld-mcp>iplist accept 10/8
	gld-mcp>iplist reject 10.10/16
	gld-mcp>iplist greylist 10.10.10/24
	gld-mcp>iplist accept 10.10.10.10
	gld-mcp>show iplist
	         0 GREYLIST 0.0.0.0         0.0.0.0        
		 0 GREYLIST 10.10.10.10	    255.255.255.255
	         0 GREYLIST 10.10.10.0      255.255.255.0  
	         0 REJECT   10.10.0.0       255.255.0.0    
	         0 ACCEPT   10.0.0.0        255.0.0.0      
	gld-mcp>

This modifies the IPlist filter to accept all tuples coming from the
'10.0.0.0/8' network, reject them from the subnetwork of '10.10.0.0/16', but
within that block, greylist tuples from '10.10.10.0/24', and accept anything
from the host 10.10.10.10; Any IP address not matching one of those rules
will be greylisted.

Adding rules to the 'To', 'To-domain', 'From' and 'From-domain' filters is
just as easy:

	gld-mcp>from accept bob@example.net
	gld-mcp>from-domain reject example.net
	gld-mcp>to greylist info@example.com
	gld-mcp>to greylist postmaster@example.com
	gld-mcp>to-domain reject example.com
	gld-mcp>show from
	         0 ACCEPT   bob@example.net
	         0 GREYLIST DEFAULT
	gld-mcp>show from-domain
	         0 REJECT   example.net
	         0 GREYLIST DEFAULT
	gld-mcp>show to
	         0 GREYLIST info@example.com
	         0 GREYLIST postmaster@example.com
	         0 GREYLIST DEFAULT
	gld-mcp>show to-domain
	         0 REJECT   example.com
	         0 GREYLIST DEFAULT
	gld-mcp>

So here, mail from 'bob@example.net' will be accepted (by the rule in the
from-filter) but anything else from 'example.net' will be rejected (by the
rule in the from-domain-filter).  Mail addressed to 'info@example.com' and
'postmaster@example.com' will be greylisted, but anything else will be
rejected outright.

	NOTE: the default action of the to-list is to GREYLIST, we
	explicitely listed 'info@example.com' and 'postmaster@example.com'
	since an explicit (a non-default) match there will bypass the
	to-domain-filter; explicit matches in the from-list will bypass the
	from-domain-filter as well.

Removing items from these lists is easy:

	gld-mcp>to remove info@example.com
	gld-mcp>show to
	         0 GREYLIST postmaster@example.com
	         0 GREYLIST DEFAULT
	gld-mcp>iplist remove 10.10.10.10
	gld-mcp>show iplist
	         0 GREYLIST 0.0.0.0         0.0.0.0        
	         0 GREYLIST 10.10.10.0      255.255.255.0  
	         0 REJECT   10.10.0.0       255.255.0.0    
	         0 ACCEPT   10.0.0.0        255.0.0.0    
	gld-mcp>

To see the currently greylisted tuples:

	gld-mcp>show tuples
	...
	71.165.201.120 gladdenedf@ncweb.com apache@armigeron.com ----- 1194031754 1194031754
	71.186.172.232 jrafert471@hersheys.com mail@floridabroadband.net ----- 1194025414 1194025414
	71.186.172.232 jrafert471@hersheys.com billing@floridabroadband.net ----- 1194025410 1194025410
	71.186.172.232 jrafert471@hersheys.com mailer-daemon@floridabroadband.net ----- 1194025413 1194025413
	71.232.226.15 TonirenalMilligan@gasupreme.us ftp@armigeron.com ----- 1194040172 1194040172
	...
	gld-mcp>

In order, you have the IP address, sender address, recipient address,
various flags used internally, the timestamp (which on this system, is the
number of seconds since Jan. 1, 1970) when the tuple was created, and last
seen (in this case, the ones presented here have only been seen once).  To
see tuples that have been whitelisted:

	gld-mcp>show tuples whitelist
	...
	72.35.226.105 ret@perfear.com chuck@armigeron.com
	72.35.226.110 ret@taxedfear.com chuck@armigeron.com
	72.35.226.112 ret@venicecalling.com chuck@armigeron.com
	72.35.226.113 ret@wehavenofear.com chuck@armigeron.com
	72.52.73.3 info@email-marketing-group.com chuck@armigeron.com
	...

Tuples can be added, whitelisted and removed from the MCP program:

	gld-mcp>tuple greylist 10.100.1.1 alice@example.net info@example.com
	gld-mcp>tuple whitelist 10.101.2.2 bob@example.net postmaster@example.com
	gld-mcp>tuple remove 71.186.172.232 jrafert471@hersheys.com mailer-daemon@floridabroadband.net
	gld-mcp>tuple remove 72.35.226.113 ret@wehavenofear.com chuck@armigeron.com

And finally, to see some stats from the server:

	gld-mcp>show stats
	Start: Tue Oct 30 23:49:02 2007 End: Fri Nov  2 17:42:11 2007 Running time: 2d 17h 53m 9s
	Requests:                    12166
	Requests-Cu:                     6
	Requests-Cu-Max:               283
	Requests-Cu-Ave:                15
	
	IP-Entries:                    121
	IP-Greylisted:               11887
	IP-Accepted:                   279
	IP-Rejected:                     0
	
	From-Entries:                    1
	From-Greylisted:             11887
	From-Accepted:                   0
	From-Rejected:                   0
	
	From-Domain-Entries:             1
	From-Domain-Greylisted:      11851
	From-Domain-Accepted:            0
	From-Domain-Rejected:            0

	To-Entries:                      1
	To-Greylisted:               11887
	To-Accepted:                     0
	To-Rejected:                     0
	
	To-Domain-Entries:               3
	To-Domain-Greylisted:        10917
	To-Domain-Accepted:              0
	To-Domain-Rejected:            970
	
	Tuples:                       1624
	Greylisted:                  10700
	Greylisted-Expired:           9171
	Whitelisted:                   116
	Whitelisted-Expired:             7
	gld-mcp>

(this is from my private email server, and I manually removed seven entries
from the whitelist, and thus they show up as being expired)

This should be enough to get you up and running with the greylist daemon.
